[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well, welcome
to another edition and "Beyond
Belief".
I'm George Noory, and we have
a very special guest for you
on a topic that's very dear
to my heart, of course.
What happens when the
power grid goes down?
But David Adair is with us,
the "Rocket Man", of course.
He's a great researcher.
He's been studying
this for years.
And as a matter of fact,
when he was a little boy,
he started dabbling in
rockets and things like that.
And he'll tell you about that.
David, welcome to the program.
>>DAVID ADAIR: Thanks, George.
Good to be here.
>>NOORY: How old were you
when all this started for you?
>>ADAIR: About when
memory starts--
probably when I was
about four or five.
>>NOORY: Four or
five years old--
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --you started
dabbling in rocketry and stuff
like that?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
When I first started,
there was just
little toy rockets that
was just sitting there,
and I can't have that.
They've got to move.
So I had my oldest brother take
a rock that I tied a string to,
and he threw it
over this tree limb.
And I tied the
string to the rocket,
and I could pull on the
string and watch the rocket--
>>NOORY: You pulled
it up, right?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, I'm
only like four or five.
My brother, what he
was impressed with
was I figured out how to
tie a string to a rock
and get the string
over the limb.
But by that time I
was 11, I had read
enough to where I could start
implementing flying rockets.
And I started out
with solid rockets,
and then moved on
up to liquid fuel.
>>NOORY: And your parents
let you play around
with this stuff?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, that's
the amazing part.
Well, I was really
good at mechanics.
My dad was a mechanic.
My dad was a Lee
Patty's mechanic,
and so I had enormous
workshops to work with.
And the first engine
I ever overhauled
was a 426 Chrysler hemi
engine, and that thing
had two four barrels and
about 900 horsepower.
>>NOORY: That's
a monster engine.
How old were you
when you did that?
>>ADAIR: I was 11 and 1/2.
>>NOORY: Jesus.
How did you even fit into
the engine to get to it?
>>ADAIR: It was
just about-- well,
the Hohner weighs
about as much as I did.
I had to get another mechanic to
help me pick it out and line it
with the cylinders.
But once I got that part done,
it was just assembling it.
>>NOORY: So you were
very intelligent
when it had to do with
technology and rocketry.
Did you ever make something
that blew up on the launchpad?
>>ADAIR: Oh lord, it's
more the other way around,
did I have anything that worked?
Most of it was blowing up.
I'm lucky I've got
all my fingers.
>>NOORY: I was going to say.
>>ADAIR: I had no--
I was quick to get
out of the way.
But yeah, I had a
lot of explosions.
Some of them were spectacular.
>>NOORY: What was your very
first successful rocket engine,
where you launched
an actual rocket?
>>ADAIR: I was 13 years old,
and this one was really good.
It was about-- almost
as tall as I was.
About 4 and 1/2 feet
tall, five-foot tall.
>>NOORY: Made out of
what, paper and balsa?
Or--
>>ADAIR: Steel.
>>NOORY: Steel?
>>ADAIR: Yes.
>>NOORY: It was the
real deal, wasn't it?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, I skipped
right-- drive well,
I used the SS rockets,
the little model rockets.
>>NOORY: I used to do that too.
I loved them.
>>ADAIR: OK, I use those for
wind direction, windstream--
>>NOORY: You shoot them
first, the little parachutes
would come out.
>>ADAIR: I'd shoot them up, see
the drift, take the stopwatch,
and calculate the upper winds.
I wrote a letter to Verness
and told him some things
he can do to improve it.
I didn't tell him
that I was just
using them for wind trackers.
>>NOORY: That company is
still here in Colorado.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, yeah, it is.
And I talked to Verne.
He's still alive.
>>NOORY: Is he really?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
He's up in age now, but I
was able to talk to him.
Really nice guy.
But he sent me a an awful
lot of motors and rockets,
and I'd critique them for him.
>>NOORY: How high up did
this first rocket go?
>>ADAIR: This one was
a cryogenics electric.
The fuels are 325 degrees
below zero, so it's a--
>>NOORY: That's cold.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
It's what we call a feely.
It's a liquid fuel
rocket engine.
And this one went
about 52,000 feet.
A little bit more than--
>>NOORY: 52,000 feet?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Did it come
down via parachute?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I had radio guidance
on it, and I
had a little wire that trailed
out of as it was descending.
>>NOORY: And you found it?
>>ADAIR: It went right
back in the yard.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
Well, how far did it drift away?
That's almost 10 miles high!
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
Well, because of the upper
winds and the jet evaders
I had built inside
the stress vanes
allows me to steer things.
It's a steerable rocket.
And so I flew into
the wind on lift off.
It drifted back.
And by the way, I calculated
it on drift time to come back--
see, it's in freefall for a
while, and then the ejection
cycle and all that goes off.
But I got good
because I was lazy.
I didn't want to go
chase them, and I
didn't want to end up in trees.
>>NOORY: Did you have
little friends with you too
running around?
>>ADAIR: Actually, I did.
And that's the funny
part, because--
Iet's see, we were 10,
11, 12, those ages.
And this very first one was big.
And my mother saw my
friends down by the rocket.
And I were up about
100 yards away,
and I called
everybody yet to me.
I said, you can't stand there.
They're used Fourth of
July rockets, you know?
Light a fuse, stand
right next to it--
>>NOORY: Little bottle rockets.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and
watch it go up.
I said, you can't
stand down there, guys.
Why?
Well, you'll see in a minute.
So they came on up.
>>NOORY: [SWOOSHING]
>>ADAIR: Oh, I incinerated the
whole lower end of the yard.
It was just burnt to a crisp.
>>NOORY: Well, at
age, David, did NASA
or other people start
noticing what you were doing?
>>ADAIR: I was 13.
>>NOORY: Right away.
That day, huh?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, yeah.
They--
>>NOORY: How did
they know about you?
>>ADAIR: Well, that was-- it
was an accident, actually.
I was trying to figure out
how some of these rockets
are malfunctioning, but I need
really high-speed cameras,
you know?
1,000 frames a second or faster.
And so I thought I'd
call the local news--
>>NOORY: And borrow one, huh?
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
Yeah, I was a kid, you know?
>>NOORY: You weren't
going to buy one.
You didn't have the
money for it then.
>>ADAIR: And they
got me on the phone,
and they said, how
fast do you need?
I said it's got to be over
1,000 frames a second.
They said, well, what
are you photographing?
I said, rockets.
And they were
quiet for a second.
Are you the person
launching rockets
we hear thundering in the
distance on a clear blue sky?
>>NOORY: Now, what
city was this?
>>ADAIR: This was Mt.
Vernon.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ADAIR: And so I
said, yeah, I think
that's my rockets
you're hearing.
Can you help me?
They said, you bet, and
they come flying out there
to see all this.
And their cameras helped.
But the very first one
I launched for them,
it came out of the pit.
And my dad was sitting
on the back of the car,
and he's smoking his pipe, and
the rocket comes ripping out
of there, and at such force.
I mean, these are mis--
>>NOORY: And loud.
>>ADAIR: Oh, it's deafening.
And my dad said, David,
look at the photographers.
Turn around.
And both them are
staring straight
up watching the rocket--
>>NOORY: With their mouths open.
>>ADAIR: --and the cameras are
hanging down by their side.
>>NOORY: Yeah,
instead of shooting--
>>ADAIR: They didn't
take a sing-- they
didn't get a single picture.
So I told them I kind of thought
that was going to happen,
that's why I packed two
more, so let us reload.
And we got some great photos.
But that's when
they wrote a story
and it went on the front page.
And boy, after that,
everybody started
coming out of the woodwork.
>>NOORY: So I would
assume by that time,
the media was doing
some stuff on you,
And the boys noticed, OK, who's
this 13-year-old kid, right?
>>ADAIR: Well, that's funny.
When we launched the
first one and my mother
was in the kitchen, and
everything in the kitchen
starts moving.
And that's called the
rockets going off.
And she comes running out.
And last time she
saw my friends,
they were down there
by the launchpad.
And when I actually launched,
they were behind me.
And she said,
where's your friends?
And I turned around
to look at them,
they're gone like Bugs Bunny.
Just--
[WHISTLING]
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: And they weren't even
allowed to play with matches,
and here I just
disintegrative a yard.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you're blowing
up places and stuff like that.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So that's let's jump
ahead for a second, David.
Let's jump ahead
to your involvement
in working with the military.
Area 51, especially.
>>ADAIR: OK.
>> In 1989, a man called Bob
Lazar walked into a Las Vegas
TV station and gave a
remarkable interview.
He said that he'd worked
out in the Nevada desert
at a top-secret facility
known as Area 51.
He said he worked on a
highly classified project,
reverse engineering
recovered alien spacecraft.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
His story was a
worldwide sensation,
and Area 51 became a household
name, synonymous with UFOs,
secret projects, and
little green men.
And yet, neither the US
government nor its military
have ever denied his claims.
And they still don't
officially confirm
that Area 51 exists,
despite satellite photos
proving it does.
Many dismiss Bob
Lazar as a fantasist.
And yet others see him
as a whistleblower,
exposing a government cover-up
of UFOs and alien contact.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: David Adair,
that story, of course,
was broken by our colleague
and friend, George Knapp, when
Bob Lazar walked into
his television station.
What do you think of Area 51?
>>ADAIR: It's still
a mystery to me.
My exposure was this very
contained in one day,
but I saw enough
in one day to know
that this has been an
ongoing operation with plans
of expansion everywhere.
When we come into
land, the runaways
were marked out with flags,
and chalk lines, and all that.
What we landed on would later
be a taxiway interconnecting.
But you could tell
they were getting
ready to build a lot of--
it was 1971 when I was there,
and they really getting
expanded like crazy.
>>NOORY: Had the story
about UFOs and things
really popped by that time?
>>ADAIR: Not much.
And I never heard the
term "Area 51" not until--
>>NOORY: Hardly anybody did.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
The only thing I knew
it by was Groom Lake,
and it was a dry lake bed.
And I even had an argument
with Arthur Rudolph over that.
I said, why are we
going to a dry lake bed?
Look at the jet you're on.
It's got rubber tires.
You're going to plow
up dirt to its belly.
And he told me to just shut
up and get on the plane.
And when we get there,
there's a big base there.
>>NOORY: What did they
want you there for?
>>ADAIR: Well, they
brought me there
to see a piece of hardware
they were working on,
and it was an electromagnetic
fusion containment engine.
>>NOORY: Was made by us?
>>ADAIR: No.
And I know it wasn't,
because I'd just
got through building my my own.
>>NOORY: Somebody else, right?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, it's from--
it was not from our
technological base.
It wasn't ours.
It wasn't theirs,
meaning the Soviets.
It was from some--
it was off-world.
And the most telltale
thing about it
was the way it was constructed.
Mine was about 3
and 1/2 feet long,
about 18 inches in diameter.
But this thing, when they
pulled the curtain up on it,
it's sitting on the stage, it's
the same size of an 18-wheeler.
>>NOORY: Gees.
>>ADAIR: It's 75 feet long, 22
feet wide, and 15 feet tall.
>>NOORY: Did they tell
you how they obtained it?
>>ADAIR: I asked them.
And this is 1971.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: They're very
condescending to a 17-year-old.
>>NOORY: 14 years
before that was Roswell.
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
And I said, where did
you guys get this?
You want me to help you with
it, it's got a big damaged area,
and it's not running.
They said, well, we're
working on it, but--
Well, where's the
people working on it?
Oh, well, they're
on summer vacation,
like you get summer vacation.
Well, did you leave any notes?
Can I read?
And he goes, well, they have
homework like you do, son.
They take their
homework with them.
And I knew right then they're
lying through their teeth.
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
What was your job?
What did they want you to do?
>>ADAIR: They wanted me to show
them how the first ignition
process occurred--
>>NOORY: Of this
piece of machinery?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and--
>>NOORY: Did you know?
>>ADAIR: I had a better
handle on it than they did,
cause I'd just gotten
through building one,
although mine was small.
But it's like if you're building
an internal combustion engine
and you have a Model A engine.
That's what mine was.
And then you have a big
Lamborghini engine next to it.
One is way more sophisticated
and more powerful--
>>NOORY: Night and day.
>>ADAIR: --but they both
still are internal combustion
engines.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ADAIR: So mine is an
electromagnetic fusion
containment device,
and so was theirs.
But theirs was so
much more powerful.
And I was just--
>>NOORY: Well, when
you say "theirs",
it really wasn't theirs, right?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
Well, wherever it came from.
>>NOORY: Wherever it came from.
>>ADAIR: And I asked them.
I said-- at the end,
after I got to inspect it,
we got into an argument.
And that's when I
started asking things.
And I said, this is not from
the neighborhood, is it, boys?
And seeing a
17-year-old, they didn't
think I'd be putting it
together so quick in my head.
And I said this thing
is a power plant.
It's not-- it's more than an
engine, it's a power plant,
and it came out of a vehicle.
Where's the vehicle?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: And in
proportion to size--
>>NOORY: You were getting close.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and
the proportional size,
that ship would have to be
bigger than a football field.
And I said, there's a
crew that comes with it.
What did you do
with them people?
And--
>>NOORY: You were asking way too
many questions for them, right?
>>ADAIR: I was--
yeah, I got in trouble
the second we went down there.
And you could see this
cavernous underground.
It stretched so far that
it bent with the curvature
of the Earth.
That's how big--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: You couldn't
see the end of it.
And my first question
out of my mouth
was, what did you guys
do with all the dirt?
And they got so
angry about that.
And I thought,
well, why would you
get angry about asking what--
you guys are packing some
kind of technology down here.
>>NOORY: Didn't they expect
you to ask these questions?
My gosh.
>>ADAIR: They
thought-- well, you've
got to remember our
society structure.
In 1971, teenagers just
didn't get any respect.
>>NOORY: Well, teenagers
weren't called down to Area 51
to analyze some
UFO engine, right?
>>ADAIR: Well, that's true.
Well, they didn't-- well,
you know what it was?
They were in a hurry.
They had a problem.
They were racing to something
called First Strike,
and I'd never heard
of that before.
And I thought, is this
some kind of baseball game?
And then as they kept talking--
>>NOORY: I wish it were.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
Then when they-- yeah, after I
heard him use the term "MAD",
I knew what that was,
Mutual Assured Destruction.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>ADAIR: And I went, oh god,
they're trying to win MAD.
The only way to win MAD
would be first strike.
And I went, oh man, I just gave
them an operating prototype
up on a desert floor
that just landed there,
and my engine, my
rocket, is not designed
for a launch in this atmosphere,
in this gravity field.
>>NOORY: Were they able, David,
to ever duplicate that engine?
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: They were
never able to do it.
And where do you
think it is today?
Still there?
>>ADAIR: I think
it's still there,
because you just can't move
something around like that
without people noticing.
>>NOORY: How big do
you estimate the craft
to be that that piece
of machinery was in?
>>ADAIR: Bigger than
a football field.
>>NOORY: Well, and we
do get reports of that.
>>ADAIR: That's something.
Yeah, whenever I
hear triangle reports
of what they call
"motherships" and stuff,
yeah, I think I saw one of them.
>>NOORY: Did it look like
it was made with technology
that we possessed?
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: I mean, were
there bolts in there
and stuff like that?
>>ADAIR: No.
That's what-- that
was the telltale sign.
On mine, I had miles of the
wiring, nuts and bolts--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>ADAIR: --weld
lines, seal lines.
>>NOORY: Solder
points, everything.
>>ADAIR: Exactly, all this.
And on this thing, as big
as it was, not one wire.
Not one bolt. Not one nut.
Not one weld line.
Not a seam anywhere.
It looked like an
eggplant that just grew.
And that's when I started
realizing, this thing is more--
it's not a machine.
It looks like it's organic,
but yet it is a machine.
It's both.
It's inorganic and
organic at the same time.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
You have been a
champion for fighting
to protect our power grid.
You've been doing
this for years.
We're going to talk about
the various things you've
been doing to try to
get that grid protected.
But there are a
couple of sources
that could knock the
grid down, and that
would be either a solar
flare or CME from the sun,
or an EMP attack,
a nuke, detonated
in the atmosphere that would
sprinkle down and wipe out
the power grid as well.
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
solar flares, first of all.
And we have avoided and dodged
some of them in the past.
We've been lucky.
>>ADAIR: Just-- we've
been incredibly lucky.
We should go to a lottery,
because you'll probably win,
you've been so lucky.
The thing with the CMEs,
the Coronal Mass Ejection--
think of on a hot day, you take
your hand against your forehead
and you wipe the sweat off,
and sling it off your hand,
and you see the
little beads of sweat.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: Well, that's
exactly what the sun's doing.
It's throwing off
beads of sweat,
but these beads are
a little bit bigger.
>>NOORY: Oh yeah.
>>ADAIR: They are this
size and mass of Mt.
Everest.
They are highly-charged
plasma ball,
and it's moving at
just below light speed.
It will cover 93 million
miles in eight hours.
>>NOORY: That's how long
it would take to get here?
>>ADAIR: Right, 8 to 12
hours, depending on orbit.
>>NOORY: It doesn't
kill people directly--
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: --but it
takes out the grid.
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>NOORY: The electrical
systems, computers.
>>ADAIR:
>>NOORY: Anything
that's powered up.
>>ADAIR: We were hit by one in
September 1869, called the--
>>NOORY: The Carrington Event.
>>ADAIR: The Carrington Event.
And it did tear up the--
>>NOORY: The telegraph
system, right?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, but
also something else--
the Trans-Atlantic Ocean
Cable, knocked it out.
>>NOORY: That got fried.
And I was also told
that the railroad--
metal ties on the
railroad got fried,
and people could see
them actually crackling.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, it was a--
well, it would make sense.
That's a terrific ground an--
>>NOORY: It's like an antenna.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, exactly, which--
there's something about
that concerning UFOs.
>>NOORY: Well, we can't contain
the solar flare from the sun.
If we are directly
in-line with the sun,
and an X flare, which is a big
one, comes out of that sun,
it's going to hit us.
>>ADAIR: Oh, it will.
>>NOORY: And you're
saying within 8 hours
it starts to affect me?
What about satellites that are
up there, and they get hit too?
>>ADAIR: They're
toast, unless they're
Echo A and B.
Those are satellite
designed to be hit by CMEs.
And on July 23, 2012, type that
computer and read up on that,
we almost died that day.
>>NOORY: Nobody knew it, right?
>>ADAIR: Yep, and they
didn't say a word about it
for two years.
The story was not released
by media or the government
till two years later.
>>NOORY: There is a
difference between CMEs,
Coronal Mass Ejections,
and solar flares, right?
>>ADAIR: Yes.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
David, that video was
provided to us by NASA.
And considering the technology
we have on this planet today,
we've been pretty darn
lucky that we really
haven't been zapped.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
On July 23, we should have died.
If we had been just out of
place by just a fraction of a--
>>NOORY: Because it went out
the side of the sun, didn't it?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, well there
were not one, not two,
but three CME balls.
The size of each one of
them, the size of Carrington,
came at us on July 23, 2012,
crossed 93 million miles
in 8 and 1/2 hours,
and passed so
close they passed
between us and the moon.
They were only
110,000 miles away.
>>NOORY: Just a little bit
more and we would've been hit.
>>ADAIR: If they showed
up one day earlier,
we'd have been hit dead-center.
>>NOORY: The alignment
was right then, wasn't it?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and it--
those three hitting
us, the first one
would have stripped away the
Van Allen radiation belts.
Then the other two would
have come in and cascaded
over the surface of the Earth,
and everything would have went.
That much power coming in--
a normal power line
in your neighborhood
cares about 5,500 volts.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ADAIR: These things would
drop 3.2 million volts
into the lines.
>>NOORY: Fried.
They'd all be fried.
>>ADAIR: It's worse than fried.
They'll turn red,
then white, and then--
they're gone.
But before they go, that
gray canisters on the poles,
the transformers,
they're filled with oil,
and they use the oil
to dissipate the heat.
But with that much surge coming
in, that oil turns into napalm.
>>NOORY: Oh, Gees.
>>ADAIR: So imagine
every transformer
in the United States all
exploding simultaneously.
>>NOORY: Did we get
any warning at all
beyond the six to eight hours?
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: We don't?
>>NOORY: So we can't tell
right now that a coronal mass
ejection is brewing on the
sun, and is about to spout?
It has to happen?
>>ADAIR: It has to happen, and
then you can start tracking it.
Then the satellites Echo
1 and 2, or A and B,
will start giving an idea
of trajectories and such.
They even have a-- you'd
have enough heads-up
to do a few things,
but not much.
It's just whenever mother
nature feels like it.
>>NOORY: It's not a matter of
if, it's just a matter of when,
isn't it?
>>ADAIR: Absolutely,
And we're way overdue.
We've got another
Carrington Event coming,
and I don't know
why we didn't get--
>>NOORY: Does the
planet get hit, or maybe
that portion of the planet?
>>ADAIR: No.
When it comes in--
>>NOORY: Let's say India was
facing the sun at that point.
>>ADAIR: Doesn't matter.
It'll come in, it'll strike
the Van Allen radiation belts.
Normally, the balls
split in half.
They come around to the
back side, they collide,
then they come down through
the Earth's atmosphere.
They'll come through
the ionosphere,
the stratosphere, mesosphere.
Once they get to
the troposphere,
they're starting to cascade
all over the planet.
>>NOORY: And it stays
that way for a while?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
When the Carrington
Event happened,
that night in New York
City, the Aurora Borealis
was charred so hot that it went
all the way to the Equator.
>>NOORY: That's that light glow
people see in the sky, right?
>>ADAIR: Exactly, the
green Northern Lights.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: That thing was
charged, people in New York
could read the newspaper at 3
o'clock in the morning by it.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, that's--
>>NOORY: And they estimate,
David, that some 90%
of just Americans could
be dead within a year
if the power grid goes down.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely, and--
>>NOORY: That's frightening!
>>ADAIR: I can give
you a day 1 scenario.
One day is enough to
scare you to death.
Just in the first 30 seconds--
let's say you're walking down
a crowded street with people,
and you're pushing
a baby stroller.
You've got your baby out for a
nice day, and you see a flash.
And this could be just an EMP.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ADAIR: What will happen is
all the transformers explode.
Everybody's covered
in napalm, burning.
You're on fire.
Your baby's on fire.
Everybody's on fire, running
through the streets screaming
and hollering, don't
know what's happening.
You call for help.
No cell phones.
No satellites.
No satellite phones,
no landlines,
no communication of any kind.
>>NOORY: Nothing.
No ATMs, no gasoline
pumps, nothing.
>>ADAIR: Wall
Street is shut down.
There's no money.
>>NOORY: Your water plants
that feed us water to our homes
won't be able to pump.
>>ADAIR: Oh, and 20 seconds
after the initial hit,
here comes a half million
people at any one time
in the sky flying.
All the Jets are coming down.
>>NOORY: They just
drop right out?
>>ADAIR: Yep.
They--
>>NOORY: Oh!
>>ADAIR: They land on hospitals.
>>NOORY: Just my luck to be on a
plane that time, I fly so much.
>>ADAIR: Well, you might be
lucky, you won't be around to--
>>NOORY: I'll be cursing you.
God, you Adair!
>>ADAIR: Ah, but
you're going to get out
of the worst part, because
all of this burning and mayhem
is going on, and you
can't call anybody.
No first responders, no police--
>>NOORY: Riots are going
to be in the streets--
>>ADAIR: --no National Guard.
>>NOORY: --you know that.
>>ADAIR: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: Chaos, everything.
>>ADAIR: Oh, there'll
be a run on everything.
The hospitals, they have 72
hours of emergency diesel
fuel for the power generators.
But when that runs
out, there's nothing.
>>NOORY: God.
>>ADAIR: And It won't matter.
All the doctors and
nurses already left.
>>NOORY: Is this
a planet killer?
One of-- if we get hit--
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
Actually, it would be.
It would be a series of events.
Because, see, that
much burning is
going to throw up
enough smoke where
you get a nuclear winter, and--
>>NOORY: Right.
Crops die, everything goes.
>>ADAIR: --the sun's
blocked out for two years.
All vegetation dies,
all plant life dies.
We're going with it.
Everybody dies.
>>NOORY: And you're
saying this is fixable?
>>ADAIR: It's totally fixable.
We don't have to
go through this.
If you get the SHIELD
Act passed, you will--
and how much will it cost you?
Nothing.
It's already in the budget.
>>NOORY: Why don't the
electrical companies,
and companies like
Amazon, everybody
who survives on
electronics, why don't they
come up with the money--
which is just, what?
What was the estimate,
$2 to $3 billion?
>>ADAIR: $10 billion.
$10 billion.
>>NOORY: $10 billion.
>>ADAIR: And the first $2--
>>NOORY: Chump change,
for what we spend.
>>ADAIR: It really is.
And the first two $2
billion would go right
into the hardware.
And that's where you have
old technology, 50 years old,
that we know that's worked.
Diverters, surge protectors,
capacitors, Faraday cages.
All this stuff will
go in, and all of that
costs you $2 billion.
We send $2 billion
every year to Pakistan.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
This is crazy.
>>ADAIR: It is crazy.
>>NOORY: Now, let's back
to the CMEs for a second.
>>ADAIR: Sure.
>>NOORY: And I want
to talk about EMPs.
The CMEs, then, these coronal
mass ejections from the sun.
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>NOORY: The solar
flares are from the sun.
What's really the difference
between the two of them?
>>ADAIR: Well, one is
visually put in your head.
One is just a big plasma ball.
The other one is a stream of
energy, of matter, coming out.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ADAIR: And it tries to
stretch out towards Earth,
but the gravity field of
the sun is so intense,
it pulls that back and it
makes that circle that you
see, a loop coming off the sun.
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>ADAIR: And we call
the a "prominence."
But you've got to
imagine how big this is.
You could push 100
Earths through the loop.
That's how big this--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ADAIR: The power is
almost unimaginable that's
involved in the solar flares.
Luckily, with the gravity
field as strong as it is,
it pulls it back.
Because if that
thing could whip out,
it'd whip all the way to Earth.
And if a solar flare would
hit Earth directly head-on,
it'd be as bad as
a gamma ray burst.
>>NOORY: And that
will happen one day.
One day.
>>ADAIR: Soon.
Yeah, one day.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Hopefully--
we've been hit before,
but they've been smaller, right?
>>ADAIR: Yes, very small.
>>NOORY: We've been lucky there.
>>ADAIR: And our planet,
which not every planet has it,
but our planet has
a radiation belt.
It's got multiple layers of
atmosphere, and it protects us.
And we're just the right
distance away from the sun
to withstand this.
>>NOORY: Now, an EMP, and
Electromagnetic Pulse,
is from a nuke detonated
in the atmosphere.
Correct?
>>ADAIR: Correct.
When the cyclotrons are
spinning on the nuclear weapon
and they detonate, they send
down an electromagnetic pulse
wave.
And that's the thing
does all the damage.
>>NOORY: All right.
Frightening.
>>ADAIR: The way
we found out-- we
didn't know anything about
an EMP until Project Orange.
That's when we fired missiles
off the back of a ship
in the middle of
the Pacific, and we
detonated nuclear weapons
in space at night.
>>NOORY: And what happened?
>>ADAIR: We knocked out
the entire Indonesian
coast of power.
>>NOORY: We did that?
>>ADAIR: We did that, and--
>>NOORY: We kept that quiet.
>>ADAIR: We sure did,
because we didn't know we
didn't know if we did or not.
People went, were we
responsible for that?
And that's when they
found out that--
>>NOORY: That's what happens.
>>ADAIR: --there's EMPs
coming off the thing.
>>NOORY: It's a
trickle-down effect.
Former Speaker of the
House Newt Gingrich,
which I think you presented
some information to--
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --was a
proponent on trying to get
this thing taken care of.
>>ADAIR: Yes.
>> Newt Gingrich!
>> Asked during the debate to
name the security threats that
worry him, Newt Gingrich
lays out three scenarios.
A weapon of mass destruction
in an American city, a cyber
attack, and something
many have never heard of.
>>NEWT GINGRICH:
Electromotive pulse attack,
which would literally destroy
the country's capacity
to function.
>> An Electromagnetic
Pulse Attack, or EMP.
It's been the stuff of
fiction on the Fox show 24
but it's also a real threat
experts say it likely
wouldn't look like that
EMP attack, they say,
is an intense burst of
electromagnetic radiation.
It can be triggered by
detonating a nuclear weapon
at high altitude.
A weapon that could be
launched by a rogue nation,
or a terrorist group
with access to it.
Detonated low to the
ground, atomic weapons
have a devastating
physical shock.
But detonated miles
up in the atmosphere,
experts say the main
impact is electrical.
Energy that doesn't
kill people, but spreads
like lightning, striking any
electrical grid or circuitry.
Feeding into them,
burning them out.
Whole cities could go dark.
Security analyst James Carafano
has written about EMP attacks.
In one single event,
what could be disabled?
>> JAMES CARAFANO: If you
had a large-scale EMP event
in the United
States, you would--
everything would be disabled.
Because even things that
weren't knocked out-- let's
say your car, which might be OK.
But the electrical grid
is going to be gone.
There's going to be no
way to do traffic lights.
There's going to be
no way to land ships.
There's no way to get
fuel to the gas stations
to refill your car.
And if you got them there,
the gas pumps wouldn't work.
>> Think of this fictional
attack in the movie
"Ocean's 11".
[EXPLOSION]
We demonstrated
electromagnetic interference
on a much smaller,
less-threatening scale
at the University
of Maryland, showing
how magnetic fields from
some electronic devices
often interfere
with other devices.
>> You hear this
ringing behind me?
We're showing you what
electromagnetic interference
is.
Say this television is a car.
A car's function is
rolling along normally.
Here's a cell phone ringing.
When it gets close
to that, you can
see how the audio of the
television signal changes.
You can hear the interference.
That's essentially--
it's interfering
with the car's function.
>> But with a
large-scale EMP attack,
experts say
computers would fail.
Telecommunications cut off.
Bank accounts inaccessible.
They say that's because
the transformers that power
many electrical grids
take a long time
to manufacture and transport.
And with transportation
knocked down by the attack,
that prolongs the isolation.
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
>>NOORY: That's a great analogy.
Is that one of the
reasons why, by the way,
they want our cell phones turned
off when we're on a plane,
because of interference?
>>ADAIR: Yes, interference
with communications.
And think how many people you've
got in the tube of the plane.
There's 100 people--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ADAIR: 100 cell phones
concentrated like that.
It--
>>NOORY: Radiating like crazy.
>>ADAIR: Right.
They've been able to
compensate some of that now,
but still, it's very
unwise to have a cell
phone on inside a plane.
>>NOORY: So one of
the reasons we're
concerned with North
Korea, for example,
is because maybe they don't
have the capability of hitting
the mainland of the
United States with a nuke,
but they surely can hit
it up in the atmosphere.
>>ADAIR: Well then, you'd
better look at something
on the internet.
Look up--
>>NOORY: Don't scare
me, now, David.
>>ADAIR: All right.
Well, look up-- type in "Ship
stopped at Panama Canal."
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>ADAIR: It's a ship coming
from Cuba filled with sacks
of sugar, about 50,000 tons.
And they noticed that
the captain of the ship
was acting weird, and he started
to put a gun in his mouth.
So they tackled him,
pulled the ship aside,
put all the sugar out.
Found a false bottom.
This ship is on its
way to North Korea.
Guess what in the
bottom of the ship?
Two Soviet-made surface-to-air
missiles for nuclear weapons.
>>NOORY: Oh great.
>>ADAIR: And it was going to go
to Korea, hook up with the EMP
devices.
And you know where the
ship goes after that?
Mexico City.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>ADAIR: And they
pull up in Mexico,
they fire the two
missiles, and--
>>NOORY: Into the atmosphere?
>>ADAIR: --and the EMPs.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, over
top of America.
They'll get over top of
maybe Missouri and Arkansas,
and detonate.
They were getting
ready to do that.
I believe it's 2013 when
they found the ship,
but it's on the internet.
And they'll show you the
pictures of the missiles laying
in the bottom of the ship.
They're getting
ready to take us out.
>>NOORY: Now, we've got the
same capability, of course.
Our submarines are capable of
launching nukes, obviously--
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>NOORY: --and we would
probably do the same thing.
Nobody wins, David.
>>ADAIR: No, it's--
>>NOORY: Nobody wins.
>>ADAIR: Everybody's
losing, and I won't even--
it's another form of M.A.D.,
Mutual Assured Destruction.
But you have wild card players,
like the leader of North Korea.
We're not sure what
he's going to do.
And Iran is doing
the same thing.
>>NOORY: Right, same thing too.
And I've been told--
I spent nine years in the Navy,
that if our submarines go out
of communication for a
certain period of time,
they have been told to launch.
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>NOORY: You know what?
Because then you have to expect
that something has happened
on land, we've been wiped out.
Something's happened,
we've lost communications.
They're told to retaliate.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: That's scary.
>>ADAIR: It's terrifying.
>>NOORY: A mistake
could ruin the planet.
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
We're lucky we-- we're so
lucky through the years
we haven't done that yet.
There are so many black swan
events waiting, lining up.
A black swan event is
an event that occurs,
and it changes
your world forever.
>>NOORY: EMPs.
>>ADAIR: YEP.
>>NOORY: Electromagnetic pulse,
an attack in the atmosphere.
How high up do they need to go?
>>ADAIR: Not as high
as people think.
Most people will
say about 300 miles.
88 miles would do it.
>>NOORY: That's it.
>>ADAIR: So those
two Soviet missiles,
although they're from
the Cuban Missile Crisis,
ironically, they are more
than capable of getting up
high enough to do the damage.
>>NOORY: And one or two
missiles will shut down
the entire country?
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Gees.
Because the grid is
connected to the grid, right?
>>ADAIR: Right.
>>NOORY: It's like
a domino effect.
>>ADAIR: There are-- there
are 900 electric co-ops.
Combined together,
they make up the grid
of North America, the continent.
And they are so vulnerable
to attack, it's in--
they're not only vulnerable
to an EMP attack or a CME hit,
there's the physical
side of it you can
attack, like commando units.
Go to the internet
and look up Metcalf,
which is the substation
of Silicon Valley.
That thing with attacked
by a group of men.
And it was so sophisticated--
>>NOORY: Was it a test attack?
>>ADAIR: It was a dry
run, is what is was.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's
what I thought.
>>ADAIR: That station
is still knocked out.
It won't come back--
>>NOORY: Still?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, it
won't come back--
>>NOORY: It's been years.
>>ADAIR: It will be two
years, more, before they even
start getting the parts in.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
Do you know Bill Fortsen?
He's from your
neck of the woods--
>>ADAIR: I've heard of the name.
>>NOORY: --and wrote a book
called "One Second After"
about this very problem,
CMEs, solar flares, EMPs.
And we're going to get
into the SHIELD Act
in just a moment, David.
But he tells me nobody is
doing anything about this.
>>ADAIR: He's right.
>>NOORY: Why?
We're going to-- we spend
billions in national defense.
We spend billions on
hardware, and on ships,
and on submarines.
Why not spend the
$8 to $10 billion,
and I think we can even
get it done for less,
to protect our power grid?
>>ADAIR: It's a multitude of
reasons why it's not happening.
One of them is politics.
The person that killed
the SHIELD Act twice
is the chairwoman of
the Senate subcommittee
on EMP and the SHIELD Act.
So she killed the
act twice, and--
>>NOORY: Why?
>>ADAIR: Well,
after she disbanded
the congressional committee
that appointed me,
I finally pandered down and
asked her off camera, why
are we doing this?
She never-Trumper, which
means that she's a Republican,
but she will never
let Trump pass
any legislation of any
kind while she's in office.
Never mind it might kill you.
She doesn't care.
She's murdered everybody in
the United States twice now.
>>NOORY: If this happens.
>>ADAIR: Yes.
All right, let's
wrap up the EMPs.
What other nations would be
capable of doing this to us?
Russia?
China?
>>ADAIR: Russia, China.
>>NOORY: Pakistan, India?
Anybody with a nuke, right?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, just about.
You've got 11 nations
that are nuclear powers.
>>NOORY: So far
we've contained it.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: The lid's
been put on this,
because no country is dumb
enough yet to try to plan this.
But it could happen.
>>ADAIR: Oh, absolutely.
It's going to happen.
It's a matter of when.
>>NOORY: What do you think
the odds are of us getting hit
by a solar flare or an EMP, a
nuke attack in the atmosphere?
Which one do you think
is most probable?
>>ADAIR: I think a CME
is going to get us.
>>NOORY: From the sun?
>>ADAIR: From the sun.
And believe it or not,
that's way worse than an EMP,
because an EMP can be
focused on one country,
like North America.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ADAIR: But the CME,
buddy, it comes in,
it takes out the whole planet.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's true.
>>ADAIR: So imagine
all continents burning
at the same time.
>>NOORY: That's true.
They're both bad, I guess.
>>ADAIR: They're both bad.
It's just, which do
you want to get bit by,
a Gila monster or a rattlesnake?
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, which one will
get you the quickest, too?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
But it's just
statistical odds are
so bad that we're going to get
hit, Jimmy the Greek wouldn't
even give you odds on it.
>>NOORY: Smartphones won't work.
People can't get on Facebook.
They'll go crazy.
>>ADAIR: Nothing.
Yeah.
Teenagers won't be
able to text anybody.
>>NOORY: No.
It'll be like the old days.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
What was like before
the cellphone?
>>NOORY: Maybe even
worse than the old days.
>>ADAIR: It'll be
worse, because it'll
be like 1860, no electricity.
>>NOORY: No nothing, and
we can't survive that way.
>>ADAIR: All your food will
be gone in the freezer.
You can't eat it.
There's no food anywhere.
You only got a three week
supply at any one time.
>>NOORY: How long would
it take to get the power
grid back up after
something like this happens?
>>ADAIR: Two to 10 years.
>>NOORY: Ah.
Because we don't have
enough transformers.
>>ADAIR: You have none.
>>NOORY: We have
nothing, no backup.
>>ADAIR: There's no spare
parts for the entire grid.
I'm talking about the
high energy generators.
They weigh 400 tons.
They're big as a
two story house.
If you knock one of them
out, there's no replacements.
It will take a year and a
half for another country
to build them, because
we don't build them.
>>NOORY: China builds them.
Right?
>>ADAIR: China and, I think,
Germany is the other one.
It will take a year and
a half to get them here.
And how are you going
to transport them?
>>NOORY: And they're going
to need them for themselves.
Right?
>>ADAIR: If it's a
planet hit, yeah.
If we were just isolated hit,
it would still be a decade
before we get back on our feet.
>>NOORY: Well, if
we're isolated and hit,
how many other countries will
really come to our defense?
Wouldn't they, at that
time, say, ha ha, finally.
We got them.
>>ADAIR: Well, I
would the Soviets
would move in and adopt
Alaska as it's country.
>>NOORY: There's
nothing we could do.
>>ADAIR: And China
would take over Hawaii.
And nobody wants anything
to do with North America.
It's just a burned down state.
>>NOORY: They'll
just let it rot.
And Canada too gets hit.
Right?
>>ADAIR: Well, yeah,
a good lower third
of it, which is where
most their population is.
But you've got to also remember,
when you lose your power,
you lose your water pumps.
You lose the water pumps,
you lose all the cooling
for the nuclear reactors.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
another crisis.
>>ADAIR: There is 100
reactors in America.
So imagine 100 Fukushimas
at one time in America,
and it will all be
drifting down wind.
There are two--
>>NOORY: That's a
planet killer by itself.
>>ADAIR: Well, there are
250 million Americans
living within 50 miles
of a nuclear power plant.
They will all die.
>>NOORY: Jeez, David.
>>ADAIR: It just gets worse.
Oh, don't forget.
We got another little
slight problem.
The 2.3 million convicted
killers in prisons,
they're going to get out.
>>NOORY: What do you mean
they're going to get out?
>>ADAIR: There's no power to
keep the door locks locked.
>>NOORY: So they
just fling open?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And they run?
>>ADAIR: And out they come.
>>NOORY: So everybody
is rioting, disrupting.
It's chaos.
>>ADAIR: And all the gangs
that's in the prisons,
they're free.
It's just the gangs will rule.
It will look like Mad Max.
>>NOORY: The problem
too with this
is even if you can survive two
or three days, eventually it's
going to get you, isn't it?
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: You're
prolonging the inevitable.
>>ADAIR: The only way
you could survive,
you'd have to have food for
at least five to 10 years.
>>NOORY: That's impossible.
>>ADAIR: Unless you're a big
government funded bunker.
>>NOORY: You'll
run out of water.
>>ADAIR: Water be
the first to go.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And what we can survive
three days without water?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So people
start dying that way.
>>ADAIR: People start
drinking bad water.
Now here comes
typhoid and diphtheria
and the host of
third world diseases
will spread like crazy, and
couple that with the violence.
9 out of 10 Americans will
die in the first 12 months.
>>NOORY: Give me the
odds on this happening
from either a CME, a
solar flare, or an EMP,
give me the odds
of that happening.
>>ADAIR: It depends
on the time frame.
If you would say at any
time, or, you know, 100%.
It's going to happen.
>>NOORY: It's going to happen.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: We don't know when.
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: Could be tomorrow.
Could be 100 years from now.
We don't know when.
>>ADAIR: It won't be no
100 years not for a CME.
>>NOORY: You think
it'll be sooner?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
Much sooner.
>>NOORY: So the
SHIELD Act, which
is what you're trying
to present and propose,
you've been working
on this for how long?
>>ADAIR: Oh, god.
Five years in my own private
capacity, last six months
on official capacity.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in it?
>>ADAIR: I was on my
way to Freedom Park.
Had my little tent,
and my permits,
and I was going to camp
on the White House lawn
until I could get to
see Bush about this.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>ADAIR: Trump, excuse me.
But the problem
is, I was heading
out the door, phone rings.
And this guy is on the phone
named Glen Rhodes, and he said,
I understand you're on your
way to protest the SHIELD Act.
And I said, yeah.
>>NOORY: Protest the fact that
it hadn't been passed yet.
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
Nobody's doing
anything about it.
He said, you're
diabetic aren't you?
I said, yeah.
You're going on a hunger strike?
Yeah.
Doctors tell me you'll
die in about a week.
I said, probably.
I have no family or relatives.
He goes, you're
willing to die for--
>>NOORY: You weren't
married then were you?
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ADAIR: He said, you're willing
to die for the SHIELD Act?
Yeah.
I'm dying for the
American public.
I think you guys are worth it.
He said, well, before
you run off and do
that, this is the congressional
committee on the SHIELD Act.
We'd like to appoint you the
national spokesperson provided
that you don't go protest, and
instead, start working with us.
And that's how it started.
>>NOORY: And you're
frustrated though, David.
I've known you for years.
>>ADAIR: Oh, man.
That ain't even the word for it.
>>NOORY: And every
time I'm with you,
we're not making any
movement with the SHIELD Act.
>>ADAIR: No.
>>NOORY: If anything,
we're going back.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And I see the
frustration in you.
>>ADAIR: It's because I'm 64.
I'm going to croak
before too long anyhow.
But I sure hate to think of
all these families and stuff,
your grandkids.
Look at your grandkids
playing in front of you,
you want them to die
this kind of death?
>>NOORY: Of course not.
That's why I continue
to do what I do.
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
>>NOORY: I've got
six grandchildren,
and you look at them
whenever you can.
And you go, I want to leave
a better planet for them.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: And this is fixable.
That's what's so crazy.
>>ADAIR: Totally crazy.
>>NOORY: It's fixable.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
You have, well, the
politics gets involved
and then the lobbyists.
And here's the irony, who
do the lobbyists work for?
The power company,
the very people
we're trying to
save and protect.
>>NOORY: And like I said, they
should be contributing money
to get this done.
Explain exactly what
the SHIELD Act is.
>>ADAIR: The SHIELD Act
is a congressional act
that will take a $10
billion lump one time out
of the Department of Energy.
Department of Energy's budget
is $30 billion every 12 months.
That's with a B, $30 billion.
What in God's name
are they spending--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>ADAIR: --you know,
every 12 months?
>>NOORY: On what?
>>ADAIR: So we take
$10 billion from them
and implement the shield grid,
where we harden the grid that
can withstand a CME strike
or an EMP pulse and things
like I mentioned earlier,
capacitors, divertors, surge
protectors, Faraday cages,
old technology, 50 years old.
We know it works.
And not one person's
doing anything about it.
>>NOORY: Not one?
So where does it sit
right now in legislation,
just sitting there?
>>ADAIR: Senator Lisa
Murkowski's killed both bills.
It's got to be reintroduced.
Nothing's being done.
>>NOORY: So it's not
there yet anymore?
It's gone.
>>ADAIR: It's gone.
>>NOORY: So there is no
SHIELD Act right now?
>>ADAIR: There's no commission.
She disbanded it.
How in God's name did
she get so much power?
>>NOORY: I was just
going to ask you that.
>>ADAIR: She's just
a single senator.
>>NOORY: How could
one person quash this?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
We need to find out how
she got such power, who
gave her this power and what
other people are involved.
Actually, if you go to my
website, AmericasFallFromSpace,
and click on the top
bar, raise the shield,
you'll see all the
people that's involved,
that's caused all this mess.
You also can send a letter
to the congressional offices
and the Senate office
to tell them you
support the SHIELD Act.
>>NOORY: You know Peter Pry?
>>ADAIR: Yes.
>>NOORY: Peter's trying to
get this done legislatively.
He heads up a commission--
>>ADAIR: Yes, he does.
>>NOORY: --that tries
to get this done.
Somewhere along the line, David,
with all of us coming at them,
we've got to get
this thing passed.
>>ADAIR: You need political
pressure to be applied.
It's just not being
applied right now.
There's not enough people
even talking about it.
You grab 100 people
off the street,
and ask them about
CMEs and EMPs,
they don't even know what
you're talking about.
>>NOORY: The SHIELD
Act is now gone.
It never happened.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
We went right back to zero.
And we're nowhere.
It's just there's an
unwritten political law
in American politics,
don't do anything
or say anything that frightens
Americans, because you
won't get re-elected.
>>NOORY: Even though you
could be protecting Americans?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
So not one politician,
no politician
supported it on either party.
>>NOORY: What we need
to happen, David,
is a little CME that hits
directly at some city somewhere
and shuts off power for a year.
Protect those people,
move them someplace else,
but we need some event to show
the world we got to fix this.
>>ADAIR: You know, you can
build an EMP device at home
by using parts out of
electronics stores?
>>NOORY: Don't tell
us how to do it.
Don't tell us.
>>ADAIR: You can look
it up on the internet
and there's all the
instructions on how to do it.
>>NOORY: And what
do you do with it?
>>ADAIR: You detonate it.
>>NOORY: You detonate it?
>>ADAIR: Somebody's
going to do it one day.
It's just a matter of time.
>>NOORY: And you knock out
power in a little city?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and
bring down aircraft
that's over that little city.
A lot of people will die.
>>NOORY: That's criminal.
>>ADAIR: Yes, it is.
But somebody's going
to do a demonstration,
and it's going to be a person
that's wanted to have fame,
like the kid that shoots
the people in high school.
>>NOORY: Look, why don't
we have a David Adair who
was a kid who
played with rockets
do a demonstration
before the media
nationwide before a new
SHIELD Act is introduced?
And say, folks, I want
to show you something.
And it happens, and the
power is out to some city.
>>ADAIR: I'm more than
capable of doing that,
and I'm actually--
>>NOORY: You would need to do it
with the approval of everybody.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Or they'll
take you away.
>>ADAIR: They would,
and rightly so.
But I have arguments
from the power companies.
And I tell them, oh, you can
take EMP hits all day long?
I was talking to my local power
company, and they said, yeah.
Well, what if I pulled up in
front of you on a trailer,
I have an EMP device,
let me just pull up,
and I'll detonate it.
Well, they were ready to
call the SWAT and the police
and all that one me,
and I'm going, well,
are you worried about?
You said you could take it all
day long, nothing would happen.
Your actions are implying that
great destruction could happen,
so your actions are not
backing up your words for sure.
>>NOORY: And when
you say detonate,
are you talking about an
explosion, or just a pulse?
What happens?
>>ADAIR: It's just a pulse.
No one would be harmed
by an explosion.
It's not an explosion.
>>NOORY: It's not a bomb.
>>ADAIR: No, it's not a bomb.
It's just a pulse
wave that would
travel across the landscape.
But, boy, anything
electronic would be gone.
>>NOORY: We've got to get
something passed, David.
>>ADAIR: I know.
>>NOORY: The clock is ticking.
>>ADAIR: It is.
>>NOORY: You know, it
could happen tomorrow.
Th sun, which has been
very quiet lately,
could pop one of
these things off.
>>ADAIR: That's when
it normally gets
you is when it's always quiet.
It's building up.
>>NOORY: What about
other countries?
I mean, are the Russians
concerned about this?
China concerned about this?
What are they doing?
>>ADAIR: They're aware
of it, the concern,
but they're looking for
America to lead the way.
If we would suddenly
build ourselves--
if the SHIELD Act gets
implemented in America,
I would propose that we go
over to Russia and China
and help them install it.
Now why would you
want to do that?
Because you don't
want them on fire.
The smoke will go up
and blot out the sun.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ADAIR: So you want
everybody to get shielded up
from this thing.
>>NOORY: The entire planet.
>>ADAIR: The entire planet.
>>NOORY: We have relied
too much on electronics.
We're stuck.
>>ADAIR: Way too much.
>>NOORY: We're stuck.
>>ADAIR: Murphy's
Law is watching you,
and he's about to come down
on you with an EMP hammer.
>>NOORY: Why is this such
a political football?
>>ADAIR: It goes
back to that thing,
don't say or do anything that
frightens voting citizens.
And so they're all
quiet about it.
>>NOORY: Yeah,
but, you know, Newt
tried to push this when he
was the Speaker of the House.
He didn't go anywhere with it.
He's not even in office anymore.
His presidential bid collapsed.
Nothing worked for him.
Nobody listened to the guy.
Is it because they don't
believe it would happen?
>>ADAIR: It's something
called normalcy bias.
It's where you think it
all will just go away,
or it's happened
somewhere else, or that's
not ever going to be real.
You come up with all these
reasons to just dismiss it.
And that is absolutely fatal.
>>NOORY: David, I don't like
paying for car insurance.
I don't like paying
for house insurance.
But you know what, I have it.
>>ADAIR: For the what if.
>>NOORY: And if something
happens, I will say to myself,
that was a good move, George.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: In this particular
case, this is insurance.
A SHIELD Act is insurance
against the potential
of something happening.
We have to do this.
>>ADAIR: Interesting
you mentioned insurance.
No insurance covers EMP or
CME, so it's a total loss.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>ADAIR: Nobody has
the insurance for this.
>>NOORY: That's right.
But our insurance
is the SHIELD Act.
>>ADAIR: It is.
It will save your bacon.
>>NOORY: I think
a politician who
truly comes forward,
it was touched
on very sporadically in the
last presidential election,
but I think a politician who
comes forward and outlines
a plan like this, and tells
people, we can protect this,
and we can protect
you, let's do it.
>>ADAIR: I wish--
>>NOORY: I think they'd be
welcomed with open arms.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I wish I could see
Trump for 20 minutes.
That's all I need.
>>NOORY: You'd convince
him in 20 minutes.
>>ADAIR: Oh, yeah.
He'd do something
about it when I leave,
because I haven't even painted
it nearly as bad as it will be.
I was just telling you about
the first five minutes.
Imagine seven days,
eight days into it.
>>NOORY: I'd rather see our grid
protected than a wall built.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
It costs less.
>>NOORY: Move the
money, you know?
>>ADAIR: It would
cost a lot less.
And in the long run, it
would save everybody.
>>NOORY: How many
jobs would it create?
>>ADAIR: That's the other
good thing, millions.
Millions of jobs
would be created when
the SHIELD Act is in place.
Because, well, first
thing we would do is we
stop depending on
China or Germany
to build our transformers.
We put a transformer
manufacturing plant right
in the center of the country.
>>NOORY: Smart.
>>ADAIR: And start
distributing them out.
>>NOORY: Because how
big are these things,
these transformers?
>>ADAIR: Big as a
two story house.
>>NOORY: That's what I thought.
>>ADAIR: They're gigantic.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ADAIR: A lot of
jobs, good paying jobs.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Can you ship those?
>>ADAIR: Sure, you can
transport them on highway.
They have to have escorts,
but, yeah, they're movable.
>>NOORY: We should put
them in different regions
of the country, just
store them away.
>>ADAIR: Well, the idea is
you don't stop building them.
You start building
them, and then
you go ahead, where
things are OK,
and physically move them to
the power plants or substations
where you need them,
and put a Faraday cage,
which is like a big net--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ADAIR: --mesh of wire it.
>>NOORY: Blocks anything.
>>ADAIR: Right.
And let it sit there.
And so when something goes bad,
you don't have to transport it.
It's right there, just
pull it out, hook it up.
>>NOORY: I want you to give
us your word that you're
going to continue pushing this.
>>ADAIR: I will.
>>NOORY: You're
not going to stop.
>>ADAIR: I've got nothing
better to do right now.
>>NOORY: You think
you can get it done?
>>ADAIR: It's not going to
be a getting around to it.
>>NOORY: Can't we
find a Congressperson
to enact the legislation and
get it on the House floor?
>>ADAIR: It could.
No one's come forward yet.
It's just I don't know
what it's going to take--
>>NOORY: Find somebody.
>>ADAIR: --other than
an EMP hit or something.
That's the way we're
going to operate.
We're going to reactionary.
>>NOORY: I had a friend
of mine in Missouri--
I go back and forth
between LA and St. Louis--
who was running for
state representative.
He was a lawyer.
John Kennedy looking
kid, a lot of potential,
probably end up being the
governor of Missouri one day,
and God knows how far he can go.
And I told him about the
power grid and about EMPs,
and about it.
And he said, what?
And I said, David, you
don't know about this?
And he said, no.
Tell me more.
And I did.
And I said, mark my word, use
this as a campaign tactic,
and you'll get elected, and
God knows how far you can go.
So he studied it, ran for
the House of Representatives
in Missouri, and
won the election.
>>ADAIR: Yeah?
>>NOORY: It's a hot potato.
>>ADAIR: You know, once
the general public,
once you get them to pay
attention for a few minutes,
it don't take long
for them to get it.
>>NOORY: It's a
no brainer, David.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
You don't have to have
exceptional IQ to understand
this.
>>NOORY: Get something
passed, would you?
>>ADAIR: I'm working on it.
>>NOORY: All right, thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief".
>>ADAIR: Thank
you for having me.
>>NOORY: It is probably one
of the single most important
issues I have ever come
across in my career.
We have got to protect
the power grid.
Because when it goes
down, we go down.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief".
[THEME MUSIC]